well howdy there I don't have people
let's bow again so tonight we're going
to talk about the great man theory we're
going to talk about because somebody
brought it up suggesting that the card
administration may believe this theory
and that the half may have influenced a
recent decision and to be honest I don't
believe that the administration has ever
even heard of this theory but I also
believe they believe it at least the
president does it explains a whole lot
about his actions in dealing with world
leaders um the theory is that some
people are just born great they're born
to lead and they're heroes of a sort
when they're born they have all of the
traits necessary to rise to power and
this means that they deserve to be in
power because they shaped their own
destiny they took it and they got there
on their own they and they alone can
make America great again
of course the administration believes
that it's their entire campaign to be
honest it's very comparable to the idea
of Divine Right that the kings of old
believed and that they used as their
authority to rule it's very very similar
it's just based on pseudoscience God
didn't come down and make them King
their traits their skills their genetics
whatever gave them the ability to lead
and to become great philosophers will
tell you this theory assumes two things
one is that all of the traits were
present at the time of their birth and
the other is that the world needed them
to be great and the reason that alone
presents its own issues because in order
to believe in this theory you have to
believe in the mystical you have to
believe in divine providence you have to
believe that there is a plan of some
sort that brings about different forms
of governance at different times and all
of these great people throughout history
they were there as part of some plan
they were there to bring something about
and that was what the person was really
trying to do was explain history and
they wanted to boil it down to the
decisions of just a few and that's what
really mattered yeah there were other
influences but it was these great people
that truly shaped the world fair enough
I'm gonna add something else to what
philosophers say I feel that this also
has to be true for this theory to be
true and that is that the great person
has to make the world whatever it is
they're gonna make it before the world
can shape them at all they have to be
immune to social pressures if they're
not then the whole theory goes out the
window
because they're they were influenced by
the world around them they're not really
great
they weren't destined for anything they
were just pushed out to the front that
to me seems a little more likely that
some people are just what the times
demand now we can see this play out in a
lot of recent decisions in the way the
administration interacts with world
leaders we can see this idea that it's
just a few people that rule the world
we can see this in theories that
surround the president that the great
man theory is present in his followers
even if they've never heard it they
believe it
even if they've never named it the great
man theory they believe that there is
some figure a singular person who they
can follow and that that person is the
hero and they will fix everything for
them it's there it's there in the
campaign it's there and their followers
it's there it's very defining for this
administration so how do we completely
shatter this theory it's actually really
easy social sciences are in fact science
they're debates not just a name in order
for this to be true they can't succumb
to social pressures they can't be
influenced by that the problem is the
entire phenomenon of Trump is a social
phenomenon it's based on a social
pressure we've talked about it on this
channel before as the world has changed
older demographics didn't change with it
and they're reaching back they're seeing
things that they believed would always
be true now they're not true in fact
things are going the other way the
static status quo of the 50s to the
nineties that's gone and now the whole
world is becoming more and more
interconnected
a lot of cultural norms are changing it
has to be unsettling for them so they
need a hero and that hero is Trump and
that's easy for me to say talking about
the United States that's just him saying
that that doesn't really mean anything
the problem is that this phenomenon is
global it's worldwide if this was really
just Trump's doing and he was the great
man we wouldn't have other use that term
but populist right-wing figures
springing up all over the world what's
happening here the social phenomenon
that's happening here it's it's
happening everywhere
the older demographics are watching the
world changed and they're freaking out
and they're reaching back that's why
there are so many many Trump's springing
up it's not a great man they're riding
out a social phenomenon the ultimate
irony of this is that the fact that they
believe that they're above it the fact
that they believe that it is truly
destiny and fate means that they're not
aware of the social phenomenons they
believe they're making it themselves and
in a way that's the only way you can
really succumb to the social phenomenon
which is hilarious to me if you
understand that it's occurring you're
kind of inoculated against it that's why
people who are older but are were more
versed in politics and philosophy
they're not falling for it
they were inoculated they understand how
this works and I would assume that if
they had any guidance for us they would
be telling us to be ready because this
phenomenon has an expiration date and we
seem to be there and we need to be ready
to go as soon as it ends and jumpstart
the drive for more interconnectedness
wider social norms that accept more and
more people more decentralisation of
power creating a world where we don't
need to create fictitious heroes to save
the day anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night